### Development of a Pilot Scale Water Resources Research Center Outputs and Products Data Portal

**ABSTRACT** 
Workers at the University of Hawaii Water Resources Research Center (WRRC) and the American Samoa Community College Land Grant (ASCCLG) have produced an array of water focused research products ranging from technical reports and peer-reviewed publications to critical water-quality and geospatial datasets. However, these products are archived in highly disconnected and disparate locations. A centralized repository and access point for all research products generated by these institutions is greatly needed. The primary goal for this proposed work will be to develop an open data portal to archive and publicly serve existing digitized and publicly-available research products developed through the past and present efforts of UH WRRC and ASCCLG. The project will focus on making reports and other research products queryable using machine learning methods to extract keywords from publication abstracts to automate the creation of metadata. We will also communicate with, and assess recommendations from the other island region WRRIP centers (Guam, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands) to ensure that the portal has the potential to be expanded to  include data and research products from other centers as well. This would not only provide a centralized location for downloading data, but would also facilitate the exchange of information between institutes. Once the requirements and specifications for the data portal have been assessed, we will develop the backend of the portal using the most viable model for long-term, cross institute data storage, and the front-end, user facing portion of the portal will be implemented as a web-based user interface that will allow users to access, query, upload, and download research products and data. 